# A-possible-reason-why-Europe-Powerhouses-in-football-England-and-Spain-s-disappointing-performance-

The project tries to find the reason why two strongest powerhouses of European Football which boasts of nearly all the best football clubs in world are underperforming in National Events like FIFA world cup and EURO cup.The regions focused are the four strongest football cities of both UK and Spain, ie Madrid, Barcelona, Madrid City,Valencia , Manchester, Chelsea, Liverpool and London. These 8 cities directly contribute to the English and Spanish Football teams and thus. indireclty,both the country becomes our region of interest. 
The domain category is sports, ie football

Even though these teams boasts of nearly every richest and powerful football clubs, their performance is pathetic.
We tried to find the reason of this by making lists of nearly every prominent player that ever played in these countries clubs and his nationality. We found that one of the main reasons of their such performance is inviting more foreign talents to play on their soil and not giving chances to their local talents. The issue is clearly visible after 1990 decade . Before that , local players used to dominate local clubs and may be that was the reason England won their single world cup in 1966. However, after 1990, the situation got reversed and clubs started buying more foreign talents. It seemed like their only aim was to win trophy and please local crowd . The situation worsen in 2010 decade when prominent foreign players are more than double of that of local players.
The situation in spain seems better that that of England.Their numbers in England has increased even though it has sunk in their own country. May be this is the reason they managed a world cup in 2010 and two successive EURO cups in 2008 and 2012. England on other hand is loosing its local talent both on its home soil and Spain where its numbers are 1,2 and 1 . The last 1 is Gerethe Bale who is in fact Waleshman . May be this is the reason why England, which invented football never won a EURO cup or world cup since 1966.
Thus, I believe that its high time that these countries start grooming their natural talents and bring appropriate changes in their clubs policies. These clubs must have responsibilities towards their homeland which provides them with everything , fanbase, money and most important , peoples love.
